makemkvcon [options] Command Parameters

General options:

--messages=file
Output all messages to file. Following special file names are recognized:
-stdout - stdout
-stderr - stderr
-null - disable output
Default is stdout

--progress=file
Output all progress messages to file. The same special file names as in --messages are recognized with additional value "-same" to output to the same file as messages. Naturally --progress should follow --messages in this case. Default is no output.

--debug[=file]
Enables debug messages and optionally changes the location of debug file. Default: program preferences.

--directio=true/false
Enables or disables direct disc access. Default: program preferences.

--noscan
Don't access any media during disc scan and do not check for media insertion and removal. Helpful when other applications already accessing discs in other drives.

--cache=size
Specifies size of read cache in megabytes used by MakeMKV. By default program uses huge amount of memory. About 128 MB is recommended for streaming and backup, 512MB for DVD conversion and 1024MB for Blu-ray conversion.

Streaming options:

--upnp=true/false
Enable or disable UPNP streaming. Default: program preferences.

--bindip=address string
Specify IP address to bind. Default: None, UPNP server binds to the first available address and web server listens on all available addresses.

--bindport=port
Specify web server port to bind. Default: 51000.

Backup options:

--decrypt
Decrypt stream files during backup. Default: no decryption.

Conversion options:

--minlength=seconds
Specify minimum title length. Default: program preferences.

Automation options.

-r , --robot
Enables automation mode. Program will output more information in a format that is easier to parse. All output is line-based and output is flushed on line end. All strings are quoted, all control characters and quotes are backlash-escaped. If you automate this program it is highly recommended to use this option. Some options make reference to apdefs.h file that can be found in MakeMKV open-source package, included with version for Linux. These values will not change in future versions.


Message formats:

Message output
MSG:code,flags,count,message,format,param0,param1,...
code - unique message code, should be used to identify particular string in language-neutral way.
flags - message flags, see AP_UIMSG_xxx flags in apdefs.h
count - number of parameters
message - raw message string suitable for output
format - format string used for message. This string is localized and subject to change, unlike message code.
paramX - parameter for message

Current and total progress title
PRGC:code,id,name
PRGT:code,id,name
code - unique message code
id - operation sub-id
name - name string

Progress bar values for current and total progress
PRGV:current,total,max
current - current progress value
total - total progress value
max - maximum possible value for a progress bar, constant

Drive scan messages
DRV:index,visible,enabled,flags,drive name,disc name
index - drive index
visible - set to 1 if drive is present
enabled - set to 1 if drive is accessible
flags - media flags, see AP_DskFsFlagXXX in apdefs.h
drive name - drive name string
disc name - disc name string

Disc information output messages
TCOUT:count
count - titles count

Disc, title and stream information
CINFO:id,code,value
TINFO:id,code,value
SINFO:id,code,value

id - attribute id, see AP_ItemAttributeId in apdefs.h
code - message code if attribute value is a constant string
value - attribute value


Examples:

Copy all titles from first disc and save as MKV files:
makemkvcon mkv disc:0 all c:\folder

List all available drives
makemkvcon -r --cache=1 info disc:9999

Backup first disc decrypting all video files in automation mode with progress output
makemkvcon backup --decrypt --cache=16 --noscan -r --progress=-same disc:0 c:\folder

Start streaming server with all output suppressed on a specific address and port
makemvcon stream --upnp=1 --cache=128 --bindip=192.168.1.102 --bindport=51000 --messages=-none
